# EnvDL

<!-- WARNING: THIS FILE WAS AUTOGENERATED! DO NOT EDIT! -->

Ultimately this project will be installable via pip with the following
command. Note that this is not yet implemented.

## Install

``` sh
# not implemented
pip install EnvDL
```

## How to use

This project is currently pre-release. Instructions on use will be added
in the future.

## Project Structure

The files of primary interest in this project are notebooks, external
data, processed data, models, and artifacts from modeling. Additional
files are produced by `nbdev` for building documentation, testing, and
other tasks. This project is intended to applicable to multiple
organisms. This long term goal motivates encapsulating data relevant to
a species in a species subfolder even though only *Zea mays* is
considered at present.

Below is an outline to illustrate the project’s target structure.

External Data (`data_ext`) - Subfolders for different species
(Arabidopsis `ath`, Wheat `taes`, and Maize `zma` shown here) -
Subfolders may contain data from public databases (cyverse, panzea,
kegg, etc.) or data from specific studies or projects (g2fc being the
Genomes to Fields 2023 competition). - Study data should be named
according to the citation (e.g. `buckler_et_al_2009`) rather than the
repository that the data is stored in (e.g. figshare, zenodo, etc.).

Notebooks (`nbs`) - Where possible, analysis will be done in jupyter
notebooks. - Notebooks follow a naming convention inspired by the
[Johnny.Decimal](https://johnnydecimal.com/) system. -
$\color{red}{\text{01}}\color{black}{\text{.}}\color{black}{\text{01}}\color{black}{\text{_g2fc_aggregation.ipynb}}$ -
**Categories** group notebooks that are all related to the same dataset.
This could be as broad as *all zma* but is expected to be more narrowly
defined as say all processing of data from *Tian et al. 2011* or a
unique combinations of studies. - **Categories** should aim to be
orthogonal (to the extent that is practical). Some functions may be
shared, but it would be preferable for these to end up in a notebook in
a mutually required category (e.g. `00.00_core.ipynb`). -
$\color{black}{\text{01}}\color{black}{\text{.}}\color{red}{\text{01}}\color{black}{\text{_g2fc_aggregation.ipynb}}$ -
**Areas** are ordinal and state a safe run order. Notebooks with higher
area numbers may not require all those with lower area numbers to be
run, but they should not depend on any higher ones. - Running all
notebooks below an area number should be *sufficient but not necessary*
to reproduce results. -
$\color{black}{\text{01}}\color{black}{\text{.}}\color{black}{\text{01}}\color{red}{\text{_g2fc_aggregation.ipynb}}$ -
A **description** makes this system navigable by summarizing what the
notebook does. It contains some of the same information as the area
(that the data scope is g2fc) but in a human friendly format.

Notebook Artifacts (`nbs_artifacts`) - Cleaned or otherwise transformed
data from `ext_data` should be kept here. - Computational artifacts
(e.g. pickled objects, figures, models) that are expensive to recompute
should also be stored here. - To make the source of the objects clear,
directory names match notebook names in `nbs`. - Notebooks of a higher
category are allowed to draw from notebook artifacts of a lower
category.

Illustrative Directory Structure:

    .

    ├── data_ext
    │   ├── ath
    │   ├── taes
    │   └── zma
    │       ├── g2fc
    │       └── kegg
    ├── nbs
    │   ├── 01.00_g2fc_core.ipynb
    │   ├── 01.01_g2fc_aggregation.ipynb
    │   ├── ...
    │   └── index.ipynb
    └── nbs_artifacts
        ├── 01.01_g2fc_aggregation
        │   ├── phno.csv
        │   ├── phno_Envs_miss.csv
        │   └── ...
        └── ...    
